better is a dry morsel with quietness
better is a dry morsel with quietness than a house full of feasting with
than a house full of feasting with
than a house full of feasting with strife a wise servant will rule over a
strife a wise servant will rule over a
strife a wise servant will rule over a son who causes shame and will share an
son who causes shame and will share an
son who causes shame and will share an inheritance among the brothers the
inheritance among the brothers the
inheritance among the brothers the refining pot is for silver and the
refining pot is for silver and the
refining pot is for silver and the furnace for gold but the Lord tests the
furnace for gold but the Lord tests the
furnace for gold but the Lord tests the hearts
an evildoer gives heed to false lips
an evildoer gives heed to false lips Alya listens eagerly to a spiteful
Alya listens eagerly to a spiteful
Alya listens eagerly to a spiteful tongue he who mocks the poor reproaches
tongue he who mocks the poor reproaches
tongue he who mocks the poor reproaches his maker he who is glad at calamity
his maker he who is glad at calamity
his maker he who is glad at calamity will not go unpunished
will not go unpunished
will not go unpunished [Music]
[Music]
[Music] children's children are the crown of old
children's children are the crown of old
children's children are the crown of old men and the glory of children is their
men and the glory of children is their
men and the glory of children is their father excellent speech is not becoming
father excellent speech is not becoming
father excellent speech is not becoming to a fool
to a fool
to a fool much less lying lips to a prince a
much less lying lips to a prince a
much less lying lips to a prince a present is a precious stone in the eyes
present is a precious stone in the eyes
present is a precious stone in the eyes of its possessor wherever he turns he
of its possessor wherever he turns he
of its possessor wherever he turns he prospers he who covers a transgression
prospers he who covers a transgression
prospers he who covers a transgression seeks love but he who repeats a matter
seeks love but he who repeats a matter
seeks love but he who repeats a matter separates friends rebuke is more
separates friends rebuke is more
separates friends rebuke is more effective for a wise man than a hundred
effective for a wise man than a hundred
effective for a wise man than a hundred blows on a fool an evil man seeks only
blows on a fool an evil man seeks only
blows on a fool an evil man seeks only rebellion therefore a cruel messenger
rebellion therefore a cruel messenger
rebellion therefore a cruel messenger will be sent against him let a man meet
will be sent against him let a man meet
will be sent against him let a man meet a bear robbed of her cubs rather than a
a bear robbed of her cubs rather than a
a bear robbed of her cubs rather than a fool in his folly
fool in his folly
fool in his folly whoever rewards evil for good evil will
whoever rewards evil for good evil will
whoever rewards evil for good evil will not depart from his house
not depart from his house
not depart from his house the beginning of strife is like
the beginning of strife is like
the beginning of strife is like releasing water therefore stop
releasing water therefore stop
releasing water therefore stop contention before a quarrel starts he
contention before a quarrel starts he
contention before a quarrel starts he who justifies the wicked and he who
who justifies the wicked and he who
who justifies the wicked and he who condemns the just both of them alike
condemns the just both of them alike
condemns the just both of them alike are an abomination to the Lord why is
are an abomination to the Lord why is
are an abomination to the Lord why is there in the hand of a fool the purchase
there in the hand of a fool the purchase
there in the hand of a fool the purchase price of wisdom since he has no heart
price of wisdom since he has no heart
price of wisdom since he has no heart for it a friend loves at all times and a
for it a friend loves at all times and a
for it a friend loves at all times and a brother is born for adversity a man
brother is born for adversity a man
brother is born for adversity a man devoid of understanding shakes hands in
devoid of understanding shakes hands in
devoid of understanding shakes hands in a pledge and becomes surety for his
a pledge and becomes surety for his
a pledge and becomes surety for his friend he who loves transgression loves
friend he who loves transgression loves
friend he who loves transgression loves strife and he who exalts his gate seeks
strife and he who exalts his gate seeks
strife and he who exalts his gate seeks destruction he who has a deceitful heart
destruction he who has a deceitful heart
destruction he who has a deceitful heart finds no good and he who has a perverse
finds no good and he who has a perverse
finds no good and he who has a perverse tongue falls into evil he who baguettes
tongue falls into evil he who baguettes
tongue falls into evil he who baguettes a scoffer
a scoffer
a scoffer does so to his sorrow and the father of
does so to his sorrow and the father of
does so to his sorrow and the father of a fool has no joy a merry heart does
a fool has no joy a merry heart does
a fool has no joy a merry heart does good like medicine but a broken spirit
good like medicine but a broken spirit
good like medicine but a broken spirit dries the bones
dries the bones
dries the bones a wicked man accepts a bribe
a wicked man accepts a bribe
a wicked man accepts a bribe behind-the-back to pervert the ways of
behind-the-back to pervert the ways of
behind-the-back to pervert the ways of justice wisdom is in the sight of him
justice wisdom is in the sight of him
justice wisdom is in the sight of him who has understanding but the eyes of a
who has understanding but the eyes of a
who has understanding but the eyes of a fool are on the ends of the earth a
fool are on the ends of the earth a
fool are on the ends of the earth a foolish son is a grief to his father and
foolish son is a grief to his father and
foolish son is a grief to his father and bitterness to her who bore him also to
bitterness to her who bore him also to
bitterness to her who bore him also to punish the righteous is not good nor to
punish the righteous is not good nor to
punish the righteous is not good nor to strike Prince's for their uprightness he
strike Prince's for their uprightness he
strike Prince's for their uprightness he who has knowledge spares his words and a
who has knowledge spares his words and a
who has knowledge spares his words and a man of understanding is of a calm spirit
man of understanding is of a calm spirit
man of understanding is of a calm spirit even a fool is counted wise when he
even a fool is counted wise when he
even a fool is counted wise when he holds his peace when he shuts his lips
holds his peace when he shuts his lips
holds his peace when he shuts his lips he is considered perceptive